---
Author: Bluefox
title: Dev meeting February 2023
logo: de/blog/images/2023_02_15.jpg
translatedFrom: de
hash: oJ4/d5llP1St6t1ienLy4me4VRzSkkXRNPtke/wPaPc=
---
## JS Controller 4.0.24 and Node.js 18: An update is worth it
The latest version of the JS controller, version 4.0.24, improves compatibility with Node.js 18. It still prefers IPv4 addresses, which was changed in Node.js 18. Additionally, Node.js 18 becomes the recommended version as Node.js 14 and 16 reach end of life later this year. This is an important step to ensure the stability and security of your system.

In this context, you should also update the info adapter if you are still using it.

## Status Matter: Exciting times are coming!
The integration of the new Matter smart home standard is progressing. There will be both a controller and a bridge adapter. This means that Matter devices can be controlled directly and ioBroker devices can be used as a bridge for other controllers such as Apple Home, Google Home or Alexa for local control via a hub. However, there is still a lot of work to be done and it will be a few weeks before an alpha version is available. Matter is based very much on UDP and in some cases (e.g. Google) IPv6 support is also required in the network. So it will be interesting when it comes to subnets, VLANs and Docker. We see details when we have something. Anyone who would like to support - be it in development or later with documentation etc. - please contact Apollon77!

## Echarts: Bar charts and more
Echarts has also received some interesting expansions in the last few days:

- Bar charts can now be created.
- JSON data with "ts" and "val" can be processed, which enables your own data sources and also calculations such as converting watts to kilowatts.
- A preview for all charts is available on a dedicated page, and the X-axis can even be shifted negatively.

## Iobroker.vis-2-widgets-jaeger-design: Easily configure pretty interfaces
Work on vis 2.x is also progressing, but there is still a lot to do. With iobroker.vis-2-widgets-jaeger-design we are introducing a special widget that will be commercially available. It allows you to create views for the smart home with simple configuration and is extensively configurable.
`ioBroker BackitUp` Extensions

## The `BackitUp` development does not stand still either:
- Node Red projects, SQLLite and Zigbee2MQTT backups can now be backed up.
- There is also a local storage check to check whether there is enough storage space available.
- Additionally, there is now support for OneDrive Cloud and integration for Matrix Messenger.

So it's worth checking regularly for updates and making sure everything is up to date to get the most out of your system